# Introduction
This Java Grep application is designed to visualize the usage of grep app in Linux systems. This app allows users to search for matching strings from files. First, the app is created using for and while loops, which is later realized using lambda and stream APIs.
This app has been implemented using Java interface and required library packages including java.io, java.util, and java.slf4j.
Exception handling has also been considered with equal importance. Java code is written in IntelliJ IDE with Maven project management outline.
Using GCP and VNC for remote VM instance connection, this app is built using a docker engine for easier implementation purposes.

# Quick Start
#Approach 1: Using Classpath and class files </br>
```
java -classpath target/classes ca.jrvs.apps.grep.JavaGrepImp {regex_pattern} ./data /out/grep.txt
```
#Approach 2: Using Jar file </br>
```
java -cp target/grep-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar ca.jrvs.apps.grep.JavaGrepImp {regex_pattern} ./data ./out/grep.txt
```
#Approach 3: Using Docker container </br>
```
docker run --rm -v `pwd`/data:/data -v `pwd`/log:/log ${docker_user}/grep {regex_pattern} /data /log/grep.out
```

#Implemenation
## Pseudocode
```
matchedLines = []
for file in listFilesRecursively(rootDir)
  for line in readLines(file)
      if containsPattern(line)
        matchedLines.add(line)
writeToFile(matchedLines)
```

## Performance Issue
The basic functionality of the grep app includes searching for the required string pattern. This requires a huge amount of
memory since the task involves JVM parsing all the text input and storing it for search.
It is possible to specify the amount of heap memory JVM uses. If this memory is not enough to run the JVM,
OutOfMemoryError exception occurs.
</br>
This can be corrected by increasing the amount of memory assigned to the JVM.

```
java -Xms5m -Xmx5m -cp target/grep-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar ca.jrvs.apps.grep.JavaGrepImp .*Romeo.*Juliet.* ./data ./out/grep.txt
```

-Xms specifies the minimum heap size and -Xmx specifies the maximum heap size for JVM.
Here, 5m ie, 5megabytes for both, can be replaced by 'k' for kilobytes, 'm' for megabytes and 'g' for gigabytes.

# Test
This app is manually tested by comparing the output of the Linux grep command with the ones generated by the app.
Also, specifying the regex pattern in the sample input of the IntelliJ and comparing those with the Linux grep output.
# Deployment
A dockerized version of this app has also been generated using docker and saved for easier future consumption by pushing the docker image created to the Docker hub account.
# Improvement
The following options can be considered for further improvement of this app:<\br>
* Using memory-efficient mechanisms to avoid memory insufficiency
* Adding more source file information in the output file